[IMP] Payroll: add necessary contract modules (#9314)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/hr/payroll/contracts.rst

=========

Every employee in Odoo is required to have a contract in order to be paid. A contract outlines the
terms of an employee's position, their compensation, working hours, and any other details about
their position.

.. important::
   Contract documents (PDFs) are uploaded and organized using the *Documents* application, and are
   signed using the *Sign* application. Ensure these applications are installed in order to send and
   sign contracts. Please refer to the :doc:`/applications/productivity/documents` and
   :doc:`/applications/productivity/sign` documentation.

To view the employee contracts, go to the :menuselection:`Payroll app --> Contracts --> Contracts`
from the top menu. All employee contracts, and their current contract status, are displayed in a
Kanban view, by default. The Kanban view displays running contracts, contracts that require action,

> expired contracts, and cancelled contracts, all in the default view.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
expired contracts, and cancelled contracts.
```

To view the employee contracts, go to the :menuselection:`Payroll app --> Employees --> Contracts`
from the top menu. All employee contracts, and their current contract status, are displayed in a

> default Kanban view. The default view displays both running contracts and contracts that need

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Kanban view, by default. The Kanban view displays both running contracts and contracts that require
```

> action. Expired and canceled contracts are hidden in the default view.

Author: Also- they actually implemented my tiket for chanigng "canceled" to "cancelled"! It was NOT liek that before - they were using the Queen's English. Well, it's the King's English now, I suppose =)

   The list of contracts in the *Payroll* application matches the list of contracts in the
   *Employees* application. The default contracts view in the *Payroll* application displays running

>    contracts and contracts needing attention, while the default contracts view in the *Employees*

Author: Double checked- and took screenshots to confirm- it is an identical list.

   :align: center
   :alt: New contract form to be filled in when creating a new contract.

> 

Reviewer: I totally understand that you prefer to break down forms like this into 'Require' and 'Optional' fields...however, I think it would be best if you simply list the fields in order as they appear on the form, then add in the explanation if they are **required**. That way, the reader doesn't feel like they have to jump around, and scroll back and forth between sections, as they familiarize themselves with the form and its fields. So, if you could implement that adjustment, I think it would greatly benefit the overall doc. Thanks! 👍

- :guilabel:`Contact Reference`: type in the name or title for the contract, such as `John Smith
  Contract`.
- :guilabel:`Company`: select the company the contract applies to by clicking on the drop-down menu.
  A new company can be created by typing the name in the field, then clicking either
  :guilabel:`Create` to create the new company, or :guilabel:`Create and Edit` to create the new
  company and edit the company details.
- :guilabel:`Salary Structure Type`: select one of the salary structure types from the drop-down
  menu. The default salary structure types are :guilabel:`Employee` or :guilabel:`Worker`. A new
  salary structure type can be created by typing the name in the field.
- :guilabel:`Start Date`: the date the contract starts. Choose a date by clicking on the drop-down
  menu, navigating to the correct month and year by using the :icon:`fa-chevron-left`

>   :icon:`fa-chevron-right` :guilabel:`(arrow)` icons, then clicking on the :guilabel:`date`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  :icon:`fa-chevron-right` :guilabel:`(arrow)` icons, then clicking on the desired date.
```

Optional fields
---------------

> - :guilabel:`Employee`: name of the employee that the contract applies to.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- :guilabel:`Employee`: name of the employee the contract applies to.
```

- :guilabel:`Department`: the department the contract applies to.
- :guilabel:`Job Position`: the specific job position the contract applies to.
- :guilabel:`Contract Type`: choose from :guilabel:`CDI`, :guilabel:`CDD`, or :guilabel:`PFI` from
  the drop-down menu.

>   - :guilabel:`CDI` is an open-ended contract with only a start date but no end date.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - :guilabel:`CDI` is an open-ended contract with only a start date, but no end date.
```

  - :guilabel:`CDD` is a contract with both a start date and an end date.
  - :guilabel:`PFI` is a Belgian-specific contract used when hiring employees that need training,
    and covers the training period specifically.

- :guilabel:`End Date`: if the contract has a specific end date, click the drop-down menu, navigate

>   to the correct month and year using the arrow icons, then click on the date.

Reviewer: do you want to implement those same arrow icons that you used previously? that might be a nice touch here.

- :guilabel:`HR Responsible`: if there is a specific person in HR that is responsible for the
  contract, select the person from the drop-down menu.

> - :guilabel:`Analytic Account`: this field allows a link between the contract and a specific

Reviewer: Isn't the 'Analytic Account' field located in the 'Contract Details' tab?
![Screenshot 2024-05-15 111642](https://github.com/odoo/documentation/assets/73958186/74321d41-16f9-4a7c-b028-acd51dcfb152)

.. important::
   To access the various contract template fields in the :guilabel:`Contract Details` tab, the
   *Salary Configurator* (`hr_contract_salary`) module **must** be :ref:`installed
   <general/install>`.

   When the *Salary Configurator* module is installed, the *Salary Configurator - Holidays* and
   *Salary Configurator - Payroll* modules install, as well.

   Once the modules are installed, the database reverts to the main dashboard.

.. image:: contracts/contract-details.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Contract details in optional tabs for a new contract.

- :guilabel:`Contract Template`: select a pre-existing contract template from the drop-down menu.
  Contract templates are typically created through the *Recruitment* application.
- :guilabel:`New Contract Document Template`: select a contract from the drop-down menu to be
  modified for this new employee contract.
- :guilabel:`Contract Update Document Template`: select a contract from the drop-down menu if the
  employee has an existing contract that requires updating.
- :guilabel:`Notes`: the notes field is a text field where any notes for the employee contract can
  be entered for future reference.

> Modifying a contract

Reviewer: I *believe* there is an 'external link' icon available now -- might be nice to add that in this section below

Reviewer: Also, can you be more specific where this external link button should be clicked? At this point, the reader is on a contract form, and if they're in 'edit' mode, they can click the external link on a few different fields... so, I think some elaboration is necessary here.

Reviewer: Do you mean on the 'New Contract Document Template' field?

> The contract details section allows for the addition and editing of a contract, and the ability to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The :guilabel:`Contract Details` tab allows for the addition and editing of a contract, along with the ability to
```

> send the contract to the employee for approval and signatures.

Reviewer: As you indicate, you mention that in the 'Contract Details' tab of a contact form, users can send the contract to the employee for approval and signatures... can you be more specific where in this tab such an action can be performed? Thanks

Author: I updated htis section- since you must add templates in here, or you cannot create the contract (and will not see the 'send for signature' button either). I updated htis to be more accurate, and specified these are required fields.

.. important::

>    To access the various contract template fields in the :guilabel:`Contract Details` section, the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   To access the various contract template fields in the :guilabel:`Contract Details` tab, the
```

   *Salary Configurator* module **must** be installed.

>    To install this module, navigate to the :menuselection:`Apps` application. In the search bar,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   To install this module, navigate to the :menuselection:`Apps` application. In the :guilabel:`Search...` bar,
```

Author: I edited this sectoin a bit to match another edit Sam made in a different doc that addresses the same issue.

>    delete the :guilabel:`Apps` filter, then type in `Salary Configurator`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   delete the :guilabel:`Apps` filter, then search for: `Salary Configurator`.
```

The contract details section allows for the addition and editing of a contract, and the ability to
send the contract to the employee for approval and signatures.

.. important::
   To access the various contract template fields in the :guilabel:`Contract Details` section, the
   :guilabel:`Salary Configurator` module must be installed.

>    To install this module, navigate to the *Apps* application. In the search bar, delete the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   To install this module, navigate to the :menuselection:`Apps` application. In the search bar, delete the
```

>    :guilabel:`Apps` filter, then type in :guilabel:`Salary Configurator`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   :guilabel:`Apps` filter, then type in `Salary Configurator`.
```

>    Click :guilabel:`Install` on the :guilabel:`Salary Configurator` module, and that module, along
>    with the :guilabel:`Salary Configurator - Holidays` and :guilabel:`Salary Configurator - Payroll`
>    modules install as well. Once the modules are installed, the database reverts to the main

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   Click :guilabel:`Install` on the :guilabel:`Salary Configurator` module. Doing so installs
   the :guilabel:`Salary Configurator - Holidays` and :guilabel:`Salary Configurator - Payroll`
   modules as well. Once the modules are installed, the database reverts to the main
```

   :align: center
   :alt: Edit the details for the contract.

- :guilabel:`Tags`: select any tags associated with the contract.
- :guilabel:`Signed Document Workspace`: this is where the signatures are stored. Choose a

>   pre-configured workspace or create a new one.

Reviewer: can you briefly describe how a new one can be created from here? thanks 🙏

> - :guilabel:`Signed Document Tags`: select or create any tags associated only with the signed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- :guilabel:`Signed Document Tags`: select or create any tags that are only associated with the signed
```

>   contract as opposed to the original unsigned contract.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  contract, as opposed to the original unsigned contract.
```

- :guilabel:`Redirect Link`: enter a redirect link for the employee to access the contract. A

>   redirect link takes the user from one URL to another, in this case, to the newly updated contract
>   specifically written for them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  redirect link takes the user from one URL to another. In this case, it takes them to the newly-updated contract
  specifically written for them.
```

- :guilabel:`Who can Sign`: select either :guilabel:`All Users` or :guilabel:`On Invitation`.

  - :guilabel:`All Users`: any user in the organization can sign the contract.
  - :guilabel:`On Invitation`: only users selected in this field can sign the contract.

- :guilabel:`Invited Users`: select the person (or people) that can sign the document.
- :guilabel:`Document`: the attached document can be replaced by clicking the :icon:`fa-pencil`

>   :guilabel:`(pencil)` icon. A pop-up window appears so another document can be selected for upload.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  :guilabel:`(pencil)` icon. A pop-up window appears, so another document can be selected for upload.
```

>   The file must be a PDF. To remove the document, click the :icon:`fa-trash-o` :guilabel:`(trash

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  The file **must** be a PDF. To remove the document, click the :icon:`fa-trash-o` :guilabel:`(trash
```

  can)` icon.

Once the edits are complete, click the :guilabel:`Save` button. All the information for the selected

> contract template populates the fields in the :guilabel:`Salary Information` tab. Any additional

Reviewer: I'm not seeing any of the mentioned fields in the 'Salary Information' tab on the 15.0 runbot I am using for the review...
![Screenshot 2024-05-15 112704](https://github.com/odoo/documentation/assets/73958186/c847eb2d-3fd3-44cf-8284-2d28b7a97db2)

  - :guilabel:`All Users`: Any user in the organization can sign the contract.
  - :guilabel:`On Invitation`: Only users selected in this field can sign the contract.

> - :guilabel:`Invited Users`: Select the persons that can sign the document.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- :guilabel:`Invited Users`: Select the person (or people) that can sign the document.
```

> 

Reviewer: can you please elaborate on where the 'salary attachment' option/field/tab(?) can be located? I am having a hard time locating it.

Select the :guilabel:`Garnished Type` from the drop-down menu. Choose from:

- :guilabel:`Attachment of Salary`: any payments taken out towards something that is *not* child

>   support. Typically any garnishments such as lawsuit payments, payments toward taxes owed, etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  support. Typically, any garnishments, such as lawsuit payments, payments toward taxes owed, etc.
```

   :align: center
   :alt: Send the contract to the employee via one of the buttons.

- :guilabel:`Generate Simulation Link`: this option is for Belgian companies only. Clicking this

>   opens a pop-up window that contains the basic information from the contract as well as a link for

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  opens a pop-up window that contains the basic information from the contract, as well as a link for
```

>   the contract when using the salary configurator. Click :guilabel:`Send Offer` to send an email to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  the contract when using the salary configurator. Click :guilabel:`Send` to send an email to
```

>   the employee so they can sign the contract.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  the employee, so they can sign the contract.
```

Salary attachments
------------------

Any automatic deductions or allocations for an employee, such as child support payments and wage
garnishments, are referred to as a *salary attachment*. This section is where all of these
deductions or allocations are set.

To add a new deduction, first navigate to :menuselection:`Payroll app --> Contracts --> Salary
Attachments`. Next, click :guilabel:`Create`, and a new salary attachment form loads.

.. image:: contracts/garnishment.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The salary attachment form with everything filled in for Ronnie Hart's child support.

Fill out the following fields on the form:

- :guilabel:`Employee`: using the drop-down menu, select the employee the salary attachment applies
  to.
- :guilabel:`Description`: enter a short description for the salary attachment, such as `Child
  Support` or `529 Contribution`.
- :guilabel:`Type`: using the drop-down menu, select the type of salary attachment being created.
  Choose from:

  - :guilabel:`Attachment of Salary`: any payments taken out towards something that is *not* child
    support. Typically any garnishments such as lawsuit payments, payments toward taxes owed, etc.

>   - :guilabel:`Assignment of Salary`: any deduction that is not required but voluntary, such as a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - :guilabel:`Assignment of Salary`: any deduction that is not required, but voluntary, such as a
```

     In order to send a contract using the :guilabel:`Generate Simulation Link`, there must be a

>      signature field in the contract PDF being sent to the employee so they can sign it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     signature field in the contract PDF being sent to the employee, so they can sign it.
```

> - :guilabel:`Signature Request`: click this and a pop-up window appears where an email can be typed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- :guilabel:`Signature Request`: clicking this reveals a pop-up window, where an email can be typed
```
